welcome to screening room I'm Robert
Gardner for those of you who've watched
this program before you know that it's
not conventional late-night programming
on television and I think this program
is not going to be any exception in fact
we're going to be dealing with what I
consider at least a long and baffling
film we're going to see only part of it
because the program isn't long enough to
encompass the entire work it's by Yvonne
Rainer she will be talking with me
explaining the film and I have asked
deke Roselle who's sitting next to
Yvonne to come and join the conversation
deke is a local film critic writer about
film teacher of film at the Museum of
Fine Arts school and I think coordinator
of film activities at the Museum of Fine
Arts I think it's nice to know a little
bit about a person I'm not going to
spend a great deal of time talking with
you at the at the beginning I think it's
good to get the imagery and as quickly
as possible but where you're from at
least you are American you're from the
West Coast are you not San Francisco
yeah but you know what do you consider
yourself well I lived in New York for
over 20 years so I guess I'm a New
Yorker but now you're you're living in
Europe I understand for this year
beginning last September I I'm living as
a kind of artist in residence under a
program that brings artists and painters
writers composers and just recently
filmmakers to West Berlin and you're
given a stipend and working and living
situation okay so that's where you're
from geographically now where you're
from in the sense of where your training
is as a as an artist is what I was a
dancer in choreographer for from the
late 50s to relatively recently I my
last performance was in 1973 my first
long film was in 1972
and for a year or so I I did both
dancing and filmmaking well I think
that's an interesting sort of baseline
to start with because dance obviously
has an affinity for film or film has an
affinity for dance and I think if people
know that you were a dancer and that you
were a choreographer that they can then
see your film in terms of that context
of movement kinesthesia and so forth
yeah I happen to think that the film
that Christina talking pictures which is
the film that we're going to be dealing
with today doesn't show much evidence of
your having been a dancer but let's talk
about that oh I disagree with you yeah I
was just disagree well it not strikes me
very much that one of Yvonne's main
themes and concerns in her work is a
quality of movement and a kind of
performance theater which is comes very
much out of a some of the kinds of
things that have been done in New York
by jolt riken's open theater groups and
other kinds of improv visit Ori groups
that is not the traditional kind of
acting or traditional kind of film
acting liver which really develops out
of life itself a series of rhythms and
pulses and movements and spatial
relationships and I think that's one of
the more intriguing things about
Christina talking pictures and I think
the background is served very well here
let me just add one thing in this first
sequence you'll see a fragmentation of
the body you'll see the camera as an
independent unit in relation to movement
and that was as a dancer that is what
one of the first things that fascinated
me about the possibilities of cinema for
a fragmenting and close-up that it was
not available to me as a performer
carefully that I mean in the first
segment you have a little bit of a
camera dance don't you yes yes the
choreography has been usurped by the
camera okay so the camera becomes the
dancer you mean yes well the camera is
choreographed is the choreographer yeah
is the choreographer well you let's look
at this first section all right
we're going to look at I cut from
Christina torquing pictures